{\rtf1\mac\ansicpg10000\cocoartf824\cocoasubrtf230
{\fonttbl\f0\fnil\fcharset77 GillSans;\f1\fnil\fcharset77 GillSans-Bold;\f2\fnil\fcharset77 GillSans-Italic;
}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
\pard\tx565\tx1133\tx1700\tx2266\tx2832\tx3401\tx3967\tx4535\tx5102\tx5669\tx6235\tx6802\ql\qnatural

\f0\fs36 \cf0 Virtue 
\fs28 0.5r3
\fs36 \

\fs24 A virtual desktop manager for Mac OS 10.4\
\

\f1\b Table of Contents \

\f0\b0 1	What is Virtue\
2 	Installation\
3 	Known Bugs (Please read !)\
4 	Credits \
5 	Resources \
\

\f1\b 1	What is Virtue? \

\f0\b0 Virtue is a virtual desktop manager for Mac OS 10.3 providing multiple virtual desktops to help you organize your running\
applications and to prevent desktop clutter. \
\

\f1\b 2 	Installation\

\f0\b0 Simply drag the Virtue application into your Application folder to install. If you have older versions of Virtue installed, the\
new version can be installed on top of the old one; Virtue is able to take over your preferences and virtual desktops. Note\
that if you are upgrading from a version older than 0.5, Virtue will replace your preferences with defaults for the 0.5 line.\
\

\f1\b 3	Known Bugs \

\f2\i\b0 X11 applications will not properly show up
\f0\i0  in the running application inspectors and menus. Their windows will be shown under \
the X11 process instead of the application process. \

\f2\i Moving an application window to another desktop
\f0\i0  will not move its attached drawers to the target desktop. \

\f2\i Clicking on a trigger type without selecting the trigger first
\f0\i0 , will cause wrong selection. To properly change a trigger type, \
select the trigger first and then click on the type symbols. \
\

\f1\b 4	Credits \

\f0\b0 Virtue contains some images taken from DesktopManager (http://wsmanager.sourceforge.net)\
Virtue contains some images taken from Colloquy (http://www.colloquy.info)\
\
Thank you Alcor for allowing me to use parts of the Quicksilvers user interface design. (http://quicksilver.blacktree.com)\
Thank you Steven, Mustafa and D. Launay for providing invaluable help finishing 0.5r2. \
\

\f1\b 5 	Resources \

\f0\b0 Sourceforge.net project page	http://www.sourceforge.net/projects/virtuedesktops\
Virtue project page 			http://virtuedesktops.sourceforge.net \
Contact					playback(at)users.sourceforge.net\
\
Enjoy! \
}